v0.26: Importing dumps into instances with existing DBs returns an error (#1469)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/configuration/instance_options.md

### Import dump

::: warning
This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
:::

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--import-dump`
**Default**: Disabled

Replaces `data.ms` with dump data and starts the server using the provided dump. Path must point to a `.dump` file.

Meilisearch will only launch once the dump data has been fully indexed. The time this takes depends on the size of the dump file.

> If the flag is specified when a database exists, an error occurs in the CLI.

Reviewer: Unless I completely missed something, `--import-dump` is not a flag. It needs a path to a valid dump file, no?

Author: It says so in the [specification](https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/105/files). Section 1.3.6, line 114

Reviewer: hmmm…I believe the definition of `flag` we are using in the docs (flags are options that do not accept any values) does not seem to be the same one used in the specs.

From the spec (emphasis mine):

> […] MeiliSearch will replace the data.ms with the dump data and start the server _using the provided dump_. e.g. `--import-dump dumps/20220117-144855452.dump`.

A dump must be provided and, as the example in that quote shows, it must be provided with `--import-dump`. Meaning, according to the definition we are using of `options` as instance options that accept a value and `flags` as instance option that do not accept a value, `--import-dump` is an option.

This does indicate we shouldn't rely on our chosen usage of those two words when speaking about value/value-less instance options. @dichotommy, what do you think?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree w/ @guimachiavelli . In the wide world of software development "command-line option" and "command-line flag" are sometimes used interchangeably, the same way @gmourier used them in his spec. We're enforcing a distinction between the two: options take arguments/values, flags do not. According to this definition, `--import-dump` is not a flag: it takes a value.

[This Stack Exchange answer](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/285575/whats-the-difference-between-a-flag-an-option-and-an-argument#:~:text=An%20option%20can%20itself%20take,represent%20boolean%20on%2Doff%20switches.) is a nice reference IMO.

> *This option is not available as an environment variable.*

Reviewer: Italics should be indicated with underscores `_`, right?

```suggestion
_This option is not available as an environment variable._
```

### Ignore missing dump

::: warning
This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
:::

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--ignore-missing-dump`
**Default**: Disabled

Prevents a Meilisearch instance from throwing an error when `--import-dump` does not point to a valid dump file. Meilisearch will then continue its process and not import any dump.

If the `--ignore-missing-dump` flag is not specified, and the file cannot be found, an error occurs in the CLI.

> *This option is not available as an environment variable.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_This option is not available as an environment variable._
```

### Ignore dump if DB exists

::: warning
This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
:::

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--ignore-dump-if-db-exists`
**Default**: Disabled

Prevents a Meilisearch instance with an existing database from throwing an error when using `--import-dump`. Instead, the dump will be ignored and Meilisearch will launch using the existing database.

This command will throw an error if `--import-dump` is not defined.

> *This option is not available as an environment variable.*

Reviewer: This one might have been addressed on a PR on the main branch, so perhaps it's not necessary?

```suggestion
_This option is not available as an environment variable._
```

### Import dump

> ::: warning
> This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
> :::
> 

Reviewer 2: This is not a CLI flag, it requires a filepath pointing to a `.dump` file. Suggest deleting this.

```suggestion
```

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--import-dump`
**Default**: Disabled

> Replaces `data.ms` with dump data and starts the server using the provided dump. Path must point to a `.dump` file.

Reviewer 2: This explanation seems misleading to me. My understanding is that if `data.ms` already exists, Meilisearch will throw an error and abort launch (unless `--ignore-missing-dump` is given). So `data.ms` will not be replaced by default.

I prefer the present explanation.

```suggestion
Imports the dump file located at the specified path. Path must point to a `.dump` file. If a database already exists, Meilisearch will throw an error and abort launch.
```

Meilisearch will only launch once the dump data has been fully indexed. The time this takes depends on the size of the dump file.

> If the flag is specified when a database exists, an error occurs in the CLI.

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding this earlier (also not a flag), see previous comment

```suggestion
```

_This option is not available as an environment variable._

### Ignore missing dump

::: warning
This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
:::

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--ignore-missing-dump`
**Default**: Disabled

> Prevents a Meilisearch instance from throwing an error when `--import-dump` does not point to a valid dump file. Meilisearch will then continue its process and not import any dump.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prevents Meilisearch from throwing an error when `--import-dump` does not point to a valid dump file. Instead, Meilisearch will start normally without importing any dump.
```

> If the `--ignore-missing-dump` flag is not specified, and the file cannot be found, an error occurs in the CLI.

Reviewer 2: This line seems redundant to me.

```suggestion
```

_This option is not available as an environment variable._

### Ignore dump if DB exists

::: warning
This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.
:::

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--ignore-dump-if-db-exists`
**Default**: Disabled

Prevents a Meilisearch instance with an existing database from throwing an error when using `--import-dump`. Instead, the dump will be ignored and Meilisearch will launch using the existing database.

> This command will throw an error if `--import-dump` is not defined.

Reviewer 2: Two nit-picks in this one:

1) The only "command" in this page is `meilisearch`. `--ignore-dump-if-db-exists` is an optional argument to that command (AKA an option).

2) Options do not throw errors, programs do.

```suggestion
This option will trigger an error if `--import-dump` is not defined.
```

Also, I think this line is equally true for `--ignore-missing-dump`, right? We should copy it into the equivalent location in that section

**Environment variable**: N/A
**CLI option**: `--import-dump`
**Default**: Disabled

Imports the dump file located at the specified path. Path must point to a `.dump` file. If a database already exists, Meilisearch will throw an error and abort launch.

Meilisearch will only launch once the dump data has been fully indexed. The time this takes depends on the size of the dump file.

If the option is specified when a database exists, an error occurs in the CLI.

_This option is not available as an environment variable._

### Ignore missing dump

::: warning

> This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🚩 This is a CLI flag and does not take any values. Assigning a value will throw an error. 🚩
```
